I want to show you one last example and this is probably the best example of why dynamic programming
is so important.
And as you'll remember when I say dynamic programming which sounds kind of confusing.
Just think of caching of optimizing something using a cache.
One of the best examples of why dynamic programming is so good is our good old friend Fibonacci sequence.
We learned about this in our recursion section of the course where the previous two numbers add up to
the next number.
So that 13 is five plus Eight thirty four is 13 plus 21 and it keeps going keeps growing keeps growing
and we learn how to calculate that right.
We're able to calculate the Fibonacci number quite easily.
We had function
Fibonacci which is a really hard name to spell.
I believe it's this way and all we did was we said using recursion we had a base case of an is less
than two.
In that case we'll return an otherwise.
We did some fun recursion we return Fibonacci and minus one plus Fibonacci and minus two.
So that if I want to find the Fibonacci number at index of let's say 6 and I run this.
And the note should be an as a number.
Let's run that again.
I get 8 because 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 8 5 2 7.
I should get 13 awesome.
This is something that we should be familiar with.
But let me ask you a question.
How efficient is this function.
And we've talked about it before right.
It's not very efficient.
If I have a variable here that says let's call it calculations
which will equal to zero.
And we're just going to increment this every time this function gets called.
And because it's recursive we know that it gets called a lot of times.
If I do Fibonacci 7 how many calculations is that.
That's 13 calculations so 13 times that we ran through the free Bonacci function.
What if I increase that to 8 21 Okay what about nine thirty four.
What about 10 fifty five.
All right it's increasing pretty fast.
What if I did 12.
A hundred and forty four calculations just to get the 12th index.
Wow what if I do 15 610 calculations.
What about 20.
Holy moly.
Over 6000 calculations and just for fun.
What if I did 25 Oh boy.
All right one last time just because we're having fun.
30.
All right.
That's a lot of calculations.
And by the way if you won your browser to crash just type in 50 or 60 and see what happens there.
Regardless if we look at this this wall is pretty terrible just to calculate the 30th number or index
of a Fibonacci sequence takes that many steps that many calculations.
That is a lot.
It's not very efficient.
And we know this right because in our recursions section we talked about how that Fibonacci sequence
and the way we're running the function is 0 of 2 to the power of and really really bad time complexity
as we saw just doing 30 calculations takes a lot of steps.
And remember with recursion we're adding every nested function call adds to the stack which increases
our memory complexity and we would never want to do an operation that costs this much in real life.
So how can we make it more efficient.
Can we make it more efficient.
I mean if our function if you wrote that function is your boss going to fire you because it's all so
horribly.
I mean if your boss is horrible Maybe but if you know dynamic programming you can avoid this because
what if I told you that we can do of and with this function because with dynamic programming we can.
That's right we can go from all of two to the park and all the way down to all of them.
Sounds like magic doesn't it.
And this is where we get to the next step of our dynamic programming.
We can reduce the time and space complexity of our algorithm by using memorization and we can do this
because the solution to each Suppe problem is what we call optimal.
That means we do a lot of problems repeatedly that are the same in the next video.
We're going to explain this concept and see how we can use memoization.
I'll see on that one.